# OASIS Common Security Advisory Framework (CSAF) TC Meeting #16 May 30, 2018

Chair: Omar Santos

## **1. Call to Order and Welcome**

Meeting called to order @ 13:05 PM EST (17:05 UTC).

## **2. Roll call**

All participants recorded their attendance on the OASIS meeting calendar -  **quorum**  was reached.

All participants were kindly encouraged to register themselves to optimize the use of the shared time during the meeting in one of two ways:

Either click the link with the text &quot;Register my attendance&quot; on the top of the event page or directly visit the per event direct &quot;record my attendance link&quot;:
 [https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/csaf/record\_my\_attendance.php?event\_id=46223&amp;confirmed=1](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/csaf/record_my_attendance.php?event_id=46223&amp;confirmed=1)

## **2.1 Participants**

### **2.1.1 Voting Members Present**

- Jamison Day, LookingGlass
- Feng Cao, Oracle
- Jared Semrau, FireEye
- Paul Patrick, FireEye
- Eric Johnson, TIBCO Software Inc.
- Denny Page, TIBCO Software Inc.
- Jonathan Bitle, Kaiser Permanente
- Zach Turk, Microsoft
- Troy Fridley, Cisco
- Lou Ronnau, Cisco
- Omar Santos, Cisco

### **2.1.2 Members Present**

- Kazuo Noguchi, Hitachi
- Masato Terada, Hitachi
- Allan Thompson, LookingGlass
- Mike Gorski, Cisco

### **2.1.3 Observers present**

**Note** : Observers of this committee that are ready to become Members should follow the specific instructions displayed the  [OASIS Open Notices](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/csaf/) tab.

- None

### **2.2 Voting Right Changes Effective After the Meeting**

#### **2.2.1 Members who gained Voting Rights**

- None

#### **2.2.2 Members who lost Voting Rights**

- None

## **3. Approval of Agenda**

- After a review and brief discussion of the proposed agenda, the Deny Page motioned for the agenda below to be approved. Seconded by Jamison. Motion passes by unanimous agreement. Approved agenda with no modifications.

## **4. Approval of Minutes from Previous Meetings**

- Meeting minutes for CSAF TC Monthly meeting #15 approved. Jonathan moved to approve the meeting minutes of meeting #15, Denny seconds. Unanimous consent, the motion carries, meeting minutes approved unchanged as published.
- [https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/csaf/download.php/63167/Minutes%20of%202018-04-25%20Meeting#15.html](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/csaf/download.php/63167/Minutes%20of%202018-04-25%20Meeting#15.html)

## **5. CSAF 2.0 JSON Schema Work**

- Examples of advisories following the current specification document models and converted to JSON were uploaded by Omar to the CSAF 2.0 Sandbox.
  - Current specification: [http://docs.oasis-open.org/csaf/csaf-cvrf/v1.2/csaf-cvrf-v1.2.html](http://docs.oasis-open.org/csaf/csaf-cvrf/v1.2/csaf-cvrf-v1.2.html)
  - CSAF 2.0 Sandbox: [https://github.com/oasis-tcs/csaf/tree/master/sandbox/csaf\_2.0](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/csaf/tree/master/sandbox/csaf_2.0)

- Eric Johnson created a schema based on the aforementioned JSON examples and also uploaded it to the Sandbox. Additional, comments from the TC members were received via the TC email list.
- Reviewed notes by Eric at: [https://github.com/oasis-tcs/csaf/blob/master/sandbox/csaf\_2.0/json\_schema/NOTES.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/csaf/blob/master/sandbox/csaf_2.0/json_schema/NOTES.md)
- Several items have not been addressed. Discussed Eric&#39;s email [https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/csaf/201805/msg00027.html](https://lists.oasis-open.org/archives/csaf/201805/msg00027.html)
- Reviewed proposal for product representation.
- Allan suggested and presented how STIX addresses products, as follows: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1epBSNorAYmBVfFnIKNgDzPSXLapL13Jmsmw-WsVfUoY/edit#heading=h.7rkyhtkdthok](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1epBSNorAYmBVfFnIKNgDzPSXLapL13Jmsmw-WsVfUoY/edit#heading=h.7rkyhtkdthok)
- Allan suggested alignment with STIX and standard ways of representing &quot;products&quot; (software and hardware).
- Eric agrees about alignment (data model vs. exact syntax).
- Omar asked about SWID support. Allan suggested that since the JSON representation is very flexible, CSAF 2.0 should easily support .
- Other issues in the JSON Schema notes ( [https://github.com/oasis-tcs/csaf/blob/master/sandbox/csaf\_2.0/json\_schema/NOTES.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/csaf/blob/master/sandbox/csaf_2.0/json_schema/NOTES.md) ).
- Eric suggested the review of localization support with the following options:
  - Language out of scope
  - Define a specific document language
  - Multiple languages
  - A given document has a default language first, and other translations are done and externalized.
- Eric suggest that localization and language should be considered and not ignored.
- Eric will review the STIX spec for their implementation.
- Deny agrees with Eric&#39;s approach.
- Jamison suggests that we should not dismiss the STIX approach until we review the STIX 2.1 working draft.
- Eric mentions that he will review the STIX approach.
- Paul Patrick, shared the specific section of the &quot;STIX Version 2.1. Part 1: STIX Core Concepts&quot; document for review:
  - [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ShNq4c3e1CkfANmD9O--mdZ5H0O\_GLnjN28a\_yrEaco/edit](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ShNq4c3e1CkfANmD9O--mdZ5H0O_GLnjN28a_yrEaco/edit)
- Eric suggests that a full mapping of the current CVRF 1.2 to JSON. Translation from CVRF to CSAF document and a reverse translation tool. This tool should be created after all of the schema items have been addressed.

## **8.  Next steps**

- Eric will take a look at the STIX specification and will suggest changes to the product representation in the JSON schema.
- TC Members: please continue to review JSON schema notes: [https://github.com/oasis-tcs/csaf/blob/master/sandbox/csaf\_2.0/json\_schema/NOTES.md](https://github.com/oasis-tcs/csaf/blob/master/sandbox/csaf_2.0/json_schema/NOTES.md)
- Mike Gorski volunteered to update or create a CSAF 2.0 parser based on the JSON schema.
- Eric will take a look at the STIX 2.1 draft. STIX 2.1 Section 4 Language Content: [https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ShNq4c3e1CkfANmD9O--mdZ5H0O\_GLnjN28a\_yrEaco/edit#heading=h.cfz5hcantmvx](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1ShNq4c3e1CkfANmD9O--mdZ5H0O_GLnjN28a_yrEaco/edit#heading=h.cfz5hcantmvx)
- Omar will create Jira issues to track all of these items and will send the links to the TC email list.

## **10. Next Meetings**

### **10.1 Next Meeting**

- Next Meeting #17 will be on Wednesday, June 27, 2018 - 01:00pm to 02:00pm ET (i.e. 2018-03-28 19:00 to 20:00 CET (UTC+1)).
- Event page:  [http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/event.php?event\_id=46224](http://www.oasis-open.org/committees/event.php?event_id=46224)
- Self-Registration link (available from approx. 15 minutes before meeting start):
  - [https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/csaf/record\_my\_attendance.php?event\_id=46223&amp;confirmed=1](https://www.oasis-open.org/apps/org/workgroup/csaf/record_my_attendance.php?event_id=46223&amp;confirmed=1)

### **4.2 Other Subsequent Meetings**

- All meetings monthly on last Wednesday during: 01:00pm to 02:00pm ET - 19:00 to 20:00 CET (UTC+1)

## **11. Any other business**

No other business

## **12. Adjourn**

The meeting was adjourned at 13:52 PM EST (18:52 PM UTC).
